Minimum RTO for a single AZ outage:

In this case RTO is the time to complete the switch to a different AZ. Minimum 60-120 seconds.

Documentation: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/Concepts.MultiAZ.html

"In the event of a planned or unplanned outage of your DB instance, Amazon RDS automatically
switches to a standby replica in another Availability Zone if you have enabled Multi-AZ.
The time it takes for the failover to complete depends on the database activity and other
conditions at the time the primary DB instance became unavailable. Failover times are typically
60–120 seconds. However, large transactions or a lengthy recovery process can increase failover
time. When the failover is complete, it can take additional time for the RDS console to reflect
the new Availability Zone."

Minimum RTO for a single region outage

In this case RTO timing requires promoting the replica Amazon RDS instance and then applying all
changes since the last backup. 30 minutes to 1 hour.
Manual intervention.
- Steps:
    a. Use existing replica and promote to master.
    b. Reconfigure the application to point to new DB instance.

Minimum RPO for a single AZ outage

Total RPO - 20 min. As per the AWS docs the failover time takes 60-120 secs but some large transactions can take some time.
Keeping a higher limit of 10 mins to do the failover. Additional 10 mins to make sure necessary applications are restarted and everything works fine.

Minimum RPO for a single region outage

In this case data loss is related to how frequently data synchronized from master to replica across regions.
That depends on the frequency of the backups and the speed to restore them. RDS takes transaction
log backups every 5 minutes.

Documentation: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/USER_PIT.html

"RDS uploads transaction logs for DB instances to Amazon S3 every 5 minutes.
To determine the latest restorable time for a DB instance, use the AWS CLI describe-db-instances
command and look at the value returned in the LatestRestorableTime field for the DB instance.
In the AWS Management Console, this property is visible as the Latest restore time for the
DB instance. You can restore to any point in time during your backup retention period."

Restoring from backup also takes time.

Documentation: https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/database/amazon-rds-under-the-hood-single-az-instance-recovery/